webdisplay/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, before:

# Deployment Guide - Flight Test Playback Web Display

This guide will help you deploy the webdisplay application to a hosting service.

## Prerequisites

Before deploying, ensure you have:

1. **Data File**: `merged_data.csv` must be in the `webdisplay/` directory
2. **YouTube Video**: A public or unlisted YouTube video with the video ID
3. **GitHub Repository**: Your code pushed to GitHub (recommended for most hosting services)

## Quick Deployment Options

### Option 1: Render.com (Recommended - Free Tier Available)

**Pros:**

- Free tier available (with limitations)
- Easy setup via GitHub
- Automatic HTTPS
- Already configured (render.yaml exists)

**Cons:**

- Free tier: Service sleeps after 15 min inactivity
- First request after sleep takes ~30 seconds

#### Steps

1. **Push to GitHub**

   ```bash
   cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22"
   git init  # if not already a git repo
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   git remote add origin <your-github-repo-url>
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. **Create Render Account**
   - Go to [render.com](https://render.com)
   - Sign up (free account works)

3. **Create Web Service**
   - Click "New +" → "Web Service"
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Select the repository

4. **Configure Service**
   - **Name**: `flight-test-display` (or your preferred name)
   - **Root Directory**: `webdisplay` ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**
   - **Environment**: `Python 3`
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `python start_server.py`
   - **Python Version**: `3.11.0` (from runtime.txt)

5. **Set Environment Variables** (in Render dashboard):

   ```
   HOST=0.0.0.0
   PORT=10000
   YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id_here
   YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   DEBUG=False
   WS_URL=https://your-service-name.onrender.com
   ```

   ⚠️ **Important**: Set `WS_URL` AFTER first deployment with your actual Render URL

6. **Deploy**
   - Click "Create Web Service"
   - Wait for build to complete (~5-10 minutes)
   - Copy your service URL (e.g., `https://flight-test-display.onrender.com`)

7. **Update WS_URL** (if needed)
   - After first deployment, update the `WS_URL` environment variable with your actual URL
   - Redeploy if necessary

8. **Access Your App**
   - Visit your Render URL
   - The app should be live!

---

### Option 2: Railway.app

**Pros:**

- Easy deployment
- Good free tier
- Automatic HTTPS

**Steps:**

1. **Install Railway CLI**

   ```bash
   npm i -g @railway/cli
   ```

2. **Login and Initialize**

   ```bash
   railway login
   cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"
   railway init
   ```

3. **Set Environment Variables** (via Railway dashboard or CLI)

   ```bash
   railway variables set HOST=0.0.0.0
   railway variables set PORT=$PORT  # Railway provides this automatically
   railway variables set YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id
   railway variables set YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   railway variables set DEBUG=False
   railway variables set WS_URL=https://your-app.up.railway.app
   ```

4. **Deploy**

   ```bash
   railway up
   ```

---

### Option 3: Heroku

**Pros:**

- Well-established platform
- Good documentation

**Steps:**

1. **Install Heroku CLI**
   - Download from [heroku.com](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli)

2. **Login and Create App**

   ```bash
   heroku login
   cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"
   heroku create your-app-name
   ```

3. **Set Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   heroku config:set HOST=0.0.0.0
   heroku config:set YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id
   heroku config:set YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   heroku config:set DEBUG=False
   heroku config:set WS_URL=https://your-app-name.herokuapp.com
   ```

4. **Deploy**

   ```bash
   git push heroku main
   ```

---

### Option 4: Your Own Server (VPS)

**Pros:**

- Full control
- No sleep/wake issues
- Can handle high traffic

**Steps:**

1. **Set up Server**
   - Get a VPS (DigitalOcean, AWS EC2, Linode, etc.)
   - Install Python 3.11, pip, and nginx

2. **Clone Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd "Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   pip install gunicorn gevent gevent-websocket
   ```

4. **Set Environment Variables**
   Create `.env` file or export:

   ```bash
   export HOST=0.0.0.0
   export PORT=5000
   export YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id
   export YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   export DEBUG=False
   export WS_URL=https://your-domain.com
   ```

5. **Run with Gunicorn** (Production)

   ```bash
   gunicorn -w 4 -k geventwebsocket.gunicorn.workers.GeventWebSocketWorker \
       --bind 0.0.0.0:5000 \
       --timeout 120 \
       backend.app:app
   ```

6. **Set up Nginx** (Reverse Proxy)

   ```nginx
   server {
       listen 80;
       server_name your-domain.com;

       location / {
           proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:5000;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
       }
   }
   ```

7. **Set up SSL** (Let's Encrypt)

   ```bash
   sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx
   sudo certbot --nginx -d your-domain.com
   ```

---

## Required Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Example |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `HOST` | Server host | No | `0.0.0.0` (for production) |
| `PORT` | Server port | No | `5000` or `10000` (check hosting service) |
| `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` | YouTube video ID | **Yes** | `dQw4w9WgXcQ` |
| `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` | Video sync offset (seconds) | No | `0.0` or `2643.0` |
| `DEBUG` | Debug mode | No | `False` (production) |
| `WS_URL` | WebSocket URL | No | Auto-detected, but set explicitly for production |

## File Structure Requirements

The hosting service needs access to:

```
webdisplay/                  # Application directory
├── merged_data.csv          # REQUIRED: Flight data file (in webdisplay/)
├── backend/
├── frontend/
├── requirements.txt
├── start_server.py
└── ...
```

Optional files (can be in project root or webdisplay/):

- `youtube_timestamps.json` - Video sync mapping
- `video_timestamps.json` - Fallback sync mapping

⚠️ **Important**: `merged_data.csv` must be in the `webdisplay/` directory.

## Post-Deployment Checklist

- [ ] Service is running and accessible
- [ ] YouTube video loads correctly
- [ ] WebSocket connection works (check browser console)
- [ ] Flight data loads (check Network tab for `/api/init`)
- [ ] 3D display updates (Godot WebSocket connection)
- [ ] Map displays flight path
- [ ] Charts render correctly

## Troubleshooting

### Service Won't Start

- Check build logs for Python/dependency errors
- Verify `requirements.txt` is in `webdisplay/` directory
- Ensure `start_server.py` is executable

### WebSocket Not Connecting

- Verify `WS_URL` environment variable matches your actual URL (with `https://`)
- Check browser console for connection errors
- Ensure CORS is enabled (already configured in `app.py`)

### YouTube Video Not Loading

- Verify `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` is set correctly
- Ensure video is public or unlisted (not private)
- Check browser console for YouTube API errors

### Data Not Loading

- Verify `merged_data.csv` exists in `webdisplay/` directory
- Check server logs for file path errors
- Verify file permissions

### 3D Display Not Updating

- Check WebSocket connection in browser console
- Verify `frontend/godot/Display.html` has WebSocket bridge script
- Check that `godot_data` events are being received

## Testing Locally Before Deployment

Before deploying, test locally:

```bash
cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"

# Create .env file
cat > .env << EOF
YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id_here
YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
HOST=127.0.0.1
PORT=5000
DEBUG=True
WS_URL=http://127.0.0.1:5000
EOF

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run server
python start_server.py

# Open browser to http://localhost:5000
```

## Need Help?

- Check the main `README.md` for detailed feature documentation
- Review server logs for error messages
- Check browser console (F12) for frontend errors
- Verify all environment variables are set correctly

Commit message:

Switch to gunicorn with gevent for production deployment
Updated deployment instructions, Procfile, and render.yaml to use gunicorn with geventwebsocket worker for improved WebSocket support in production. Added related dependencies to requirements.txt and adjusted Flask-SocketIO async_mode selection for compatibility. Clarified environment variable usage and deployment steps in DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md.

webdisplay/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, after:

# Deployment Guide - Flight Test Playback Web Display

This guide will help you deploy the webdisplay application to a hosting service.

## Prerequisites

Before deploying, ensure you have:

1. **Data File**: `merged_data.csv` must be in the `webdisplay/` directory
2. **YouTube Video**: A public or unlisted YouTube video with the video ID
3. **GitHub Repository**: Your code pushed to GitHub (recommended for most hosting services)

## Quick Deployment Options

### Option 1: Render.com (Recommended - Free Tier Available)

**Pros:**

- Free tier available (with limitations)
- Easy setup via GitHub
- Automatic HTTPS
- Already configured (render.yaml exists)

**Cons:**

- Free tier: Service sleeps after 15 min inactivity
- First request after sleep takes ~30 seconds

#### Steps

1. **Push to GitHub**

   ```bash
   cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22"
   git init  # if not already a git repo
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   git remote add origin <your-github-repo-url>
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. **Create Render Account**
   - Go to [render.com](https://render.com)
   - Sign up (free account works)

3. **Create Web Service**
   - Click "New +" → "Web Service"
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Select the repository

4. **Configure Service**
   - **Name**: `flight-test-display` (or your preferred name)
   - **Root Directory**: `webdisplay` ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**
   - **Environment**: `Python 3`
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `gunicorn -w 1 -k geventwebsocket.gunicorn.workers.GeventWebSocketWorker --bind 0.0.0.0:$PORT --timeout 120 backend.app:app`
   - **Python Version**: `3.11.0` (from runtime.txt)

   ⚠️ **Note**: If using `render.yaml`, the start command is already configured. Otherwise, use the gunicorn command above.

5. **Set Environment Variables** (in Render dashboard):

   ```
   HOST=0.0.0.0
   YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id_here
   YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   DEBUG=False
   WS_URL=https://your-service-name.onrender.com
   ```

   ⚠️ **Important Notes**:
   - `PORT` is automatically provided by Render - do NOT set it manually
   - Set `WS_URL` AFTER first deployment with your actual Render URL (e.g., `https://flight-test-display.onrender.com`)
   - The `render.yaml` file already configures most settings, but you still need to set `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` and `WS_URL` manually

6. **Deploy**
   - Click "Create Web Service"
   - Wait for build to complete (~5-10 minutes)
   - Copy your service URL (e.g., `https://flight-test-display.onrender.com`)

7. **Update WS_URL** (if needed)
   - After first deployment, update the `WS_URL` environment variable with your actual URL
   - Redeploy if necessary

8. **Access Your App**
   - Visit your Render URL
   - The app should be live!

---

### Option 2: Railway.app

**Pros:**

- Easy deployment
- Good free tier
- Automatic HTTPS

**Steps:**

1. **Install Railway CLI**

   ```bash
   npm i -g @railway/cli
   ```

2. **Login and Initialize**

   ```bash
   railway login
   cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"
   railway init
   ```

3. **Set Environment Variables** (via Railway dashboard or CLI)

   ```bash
   railway variables set HOST=0.0.0.0
   railway variables set PORT=$PORT  # Railway provides this automatically
   railway variables set YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id
   railway variables set YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   railway variables set DEBUG=False
   railway variables set WS_URL=https://your-app.up.railway.app
   ```

4. **Deploy**

   ```bash
   railway up
   ```

---

### Option 3: Heroku

**Pros:**

- Well-established platform
- Good documentation

**Steps:**

1. **Install Heroku CLI**
   - Download from [heroku.com](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli)

2. **Login and Create App**

   ```bash
   heroku login
   cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"
   heroku create your-app-name
   ```

3. **Set Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   heroku config:set HOST=0.0.0.0
   heroku config:set YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id
   heroku config:set YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   heroku config:set DEBUG=False
   heroku config:set WS_URL=https://your-app-name.herokuapp.com
   ```

4. **Deploy**

   ```bash
   git push heroku main
   ```

---

### Option 4: Your Own Server (VPS)

**Pros:**

- Full control
- No sleep/wake issues
- Can handle high traffic

**Steps:**

1. **Set up Server**
   - Get a VPS (DigitalOcean, AWS EC2, Linode, etc.)
   - Install Python 3.11, pip, and nginx

2. **Clone Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd "Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   pip install gunicorn gevent gevent-websocket
   ```

4. **Set Environment Variables**
   Create `.env` file or export:

   ```bash
   export HOST=0.0.0.0
   export PORT=5000
   export YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id
   export YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
   export DEBUG=False
   export WS_URL=https://your-domain.com
   ```

5. **Run with Gunicorn** (Production)

   ```bash
   gunicorn -w 4 -k geventwebsocket.gunicorn.workers.GeventWebSocketWorker \
       --bind 0.0.0.0:5000 \
       --timeout 120 \
       backend.app:app
   ```

6. **Set up Nginx** (Reverse Proxy)

   ```nginx
   server {
       listen 80;
       server_name your-domain.com;

       location / {
           proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:5000;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
       }
   }
   ```

7. **Set up SSL** (Let's Encrypt)

   ```bash
   sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx
   sudo certbot --nginx -d your-domain.com
   ```

---

## Required Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Example |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `HOST` | Server host | No | `0.0.0.0` (for production) |
| `PORT` | Server port | No | `5000` or `10000` (check hosting service) |
| `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` | YouTube video ID | **Yes** | `dQw4w9WgXcQ` |
| `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` | Video sync offset (seconds) | No | `0.0` or `2643.0` |
| `DEBUG` | Debug mode | No | `False` (production) |
| `WS_URL` | WebSocket URL | No | Auto-detected, but set explicitly for production |

## File Structure Requirements

The hosting service needs access to:

```
webdisplay/                  # Application directory
├── merged_data.csv          # REQUIRED: Flight data file (in webdisplay/)
├── backend/
├── frontend/
├── requirements.txt
├── start_server.py
└── ...
```

Optional files (can be in project root or webdisplay/):

- `youtube_timestamps.json` - Video sync mapping
- `video_timestamps.json` - Fallback sync mapping

⚠️ **Important**: `merged_data.csv` must be in the `webdisplay/` directory.

## Post-Deployment Checklist

- [ ] Service is running and accessible
- [ ] YouTube video loads correctly
- [ ] WebSocket connection works (check browser console)
- [ ] Flight data loads (check Network tab for `/api/init`)
- [ ] 3D display updates (Godot WebSocket connection)
- [ ] Map displays flight path
- [ ] Charts render correctly

## Troubleshooting

### Service Won't Start

- Check build logs for Python/dependency errors
- Verify `requirements.txt` is in `webdisplay/` directory
- Ensure `start_server.py` is executable

### WebSocket Not Connecting

- Verify `WS_URL` environment variable matches your actual URL (with `https://`)
- Check browser console for connection errors
- Ensure CORS is enabled (already configured in `app.py`)

### YouTube Video Not Loading

- Verify `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` is set correctly
- Ensure video is public or unlisted (not private)
- Check browser console for YouTube API errors

### Data Not Loading

- Verify `merged_data.csv` exists in `webdisplay/` directory
- Check server logs for file path errors
- Verify file permissions

### 3D Display Not Updating

- Check WebSocket connection in browser console
- Verify `frontend/godot/Display.html` has WebSocket bridge script
- Check that `godot_data` events are being received

## Testing Locally Before Deployment

Before deploying, test locally:

```bash
cd "/Users/joelmiller/Desktop/Flight Test 1 - SR22/webdisplay"

# Create .env file
cat > .env << EOF
YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id_here
YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
HOST=127.0.0.1
PORT=5000
DEBUG=True
WS_URL=http://127.0.0.1:5000
EOF

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run server
python start_server.py

# Open browser to http://localhost:5000
```

## Need Help?

- Check the main `README.md` for detailed feature documentation
- Review server logs for error messages
- Check browser console (F12) for frontend errors
- Verify all environment variables are set correctly
