webdisplay/README.md, before:

# Flight Test Playback Web Display

A web-based interactive flight test data visualization system with 3D HMD display, video feed, flight path map, altitude profile, and attitude charts. This system synchronizes YouTube video playback with real-time flight data visualization.

## Features

- **3D HMD Display**: Real-time 3D visualization using Godot HTML5 export
- **YouTube Video Integration**: Synchronized video playback with flight data
- **Interactive Flight Path Map**: Real-time tracking on an interactive map
- **Altitude Profile Chart**: Visual altitude tracking over time
- **Attitude Charts**: Pitch, roll, and heading visualization
- **WebSocket Real-time Updates**: Live data streaming for smooth playback
- **Playback Controls**: Play, pause, speed control, and jump to timestamp

## Project Structure

```
webdisplay/
├── backend/              # Flask backend server
│   ├── app.py           # Main server application
│   ├── data_processor.py
│   └── video_timestamp_mapper.py
├── frontend/            # Web frontend
│   ├── index.html       # Main HTML page
│   ├── css/             # Stylesheets
│   ├── js/              # JavaScript modules
│   │   ├── playback.js  # Playback control logic
│   │   ├── main.js      # Main application logic
│   │   ├── map.js       # Map visualization
│   │   ├── chart.js     # Chart rendering
│   │   ├── attitude-chart.js
│   │   └── youtube-player.js
│   └── godot/           # Godot HTML5 export (3D display)
│       └── Display.html # Godot display with WebSocket bridge
├── Display/             # Godot project scripts
│   └── Scripts/
├── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
├── start_server.py      # Server startup script
├── start_server.bat     # Windows startup script
├── start_server.sh      # Linux/Mac startup script
├── config.py.example   # Configuration template
├── Procfile             # For deployment platforms
├── render.yaml          # Render.com deployment config
└── runtime.txt          # Python version specification
```

## Quick Start

### 0. Verify Setup (Optional)

Run the verification script to check if all files are present:

```bash
python verify_setup.py
```

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure YouTube Video

The system uses YouTube video for playback. Set environment variables or create a `.env` file:

```bash
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env and set your YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID
```

Or set environment variables directly:

```env
YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id_here
YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
```

**Getting Your YouTube Video ID:**
- From URL: `https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VIDEO_ID_HERE`
- The Video ID is the part after `v=`
- Video must be **public** or **unlisted** (not private)

**YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET:**
- Offset in seconds to sync video with flight data
- If flight data starts at timestamp 2643.0s but video starts at 0:00, set `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=2643.0`
- If video starts 10 seconds before flight data, set `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=-10.0`

### 3. Start the Server

```bash
python start_server.py
```

Or use the provided scripts:
- **Windows**: `start_server.bat`
- **Linux/Mac**: `start_server.sh`

### 4. Open in Browser

Navigate to `http://localhost:5000`

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` | YouTube video ID (required) | - |
| `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` | Video sync offset in seconds | `0.0` |
| `HOST` | Server host | `127.0.0.1` |
| `PORT` | Server port | `5000` |
| `DEBUG` | Debug mode | `True` |
| `WS_URL` | WebSocket URL (for production) | Auto-detected |

### Data Files

The system expects:
- `merged_data.csv` in the `webdisplay/` directory (flight data) ✅ **Already included**
- `youtube_timestamps.json` in the `webdisplay/` directory (optional, improves video sync) ✅ **Already included**
- `video_timestamps.json` in the `webdisplay/` directory (optional fallback) ✅ **Already included**
- `camera_frames_flipped/` directory in project root (optional, for frame-based video)

**Note:** This directory is now self-contained for hosting. All required files are included.

### WebSocket URL Configuration

For production deployment, update WebSocket URLs in:
- `frontend/js/playback.js` (line ~18)
- `frontend/godot/Display.html` (line ~118)

Change from:
```javascript
const socket = io('http://127.0.0.1:5000');
```

To your server URL:
```javascript
const socket = io('https://your-domain.com');
```

## Deployment

### Render.com (Recommended - Free Tier)

1. **Push code to GitHub**

2. **Create Render service:**
   - Go to [render.com](https://render.com)
   - Click "New +" → "Web Service"
   - Connect your GitHub repository

3. **Configure service:**
   - **Name**: `flight-test-display`
   - **Root Directory**: `webdisplay`
   - **Environment**: `Python 3`
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `python start_server.py`
   - **Environment Variables**:
     - `HOST`: `0.0.0.0`
     - `PORT`: `10000` (or check Render's assigned port)
     - `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID`: Your video ID
     - `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET`: `0.0` (adjust as needed)
     - `WS_URL`: Your Render URL (set after first deploy)

4. **After deployment:**
   - Copy your service URL
   - Add `WS_URL` environment variable with your URL
   - Update WebSocket URLs in frontend files if needed

**Free Tier Limitations:**
- Service sleeps after 15 minutes of inactivity
- First request after sleep takes ~30 seconds (wake-up)
- 500MB disk space, 100GB bandwidth/month

### Railway.app

1. Install Railway CLI: `npm i -g @railway/cli`
2. Login: `railway login`
3. Initialize: `railway init`
4. Deploy: `railway up`
5. Set environment variables in Railway dashboard

### Production Server (Gunicorn)

For production deployment on your own server:

```bash
pip install gunicorn gevent gevent-websocket
gunicorn -w 4 -k geventwebsocket.gunicorn.workers.GeventWebSocketWorker \
    --bind 0.0.0.0:5000 \
    --timeout 120 \
    backend.app:app
```

## Integration into Your Website

### Option 1: Standalone Page

1. Copy the entire `frontend/` folder to your website
2. Update WebSocket URLs to point to your backend server
3. Link to `frontend/index.html` from your website

### Option 2: Embed as Component

1. Copy `frontend/css/`, `frontend/js/`, and `frontend/godot/` to your website
2. Include the CSS and JS files in your page
3. Copy the HTML structure from `frontend/index.html` into your page
4. Update WebSocket URLs

### Required External Dependencies

The frontend requires these libraries (already included in `index.html`):
- Leaflet.js (for map)
- Chart.js (for charts)
- Socket.IO (for WebSocket)
- YouTube IFrame API (for video)

## Video Synchronization

The system automatically synchronizes YouTube video with flight data timestamps. The sync process involves:

1. **Base Mapping**: Match video frames to flight data timestamps
2. **YouTube Adjustment**: Account for any trimming/editing in the YouTube video

The synchronization is configured via the `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` environment variable. If you need to create or adjust timestamp mappings, you'll need to use external tools or scripts (not included in this web display package).

## Development

### Local Development

1. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Set environment variables (create `.env` file)
3. Run: `python start_server.py`
4. Open: `http://localhost:5000`

### Default Settings

- **Playback Speed**: 2x (configurable in `js/playback.js`)
- **Update Frequency**: Map/charts update every 100 frames (configurable in `js/main.js`)
- **Data Preloading**: All flight data is preloaded for smooth playback

### Godot Integration

The 3D display uses Godot HTML5 export. Important notes:
- The WebSocket bridge script must be in `frontend/godot/Display.html`
- After each Godot HTML5 export, you must re-add the WebSocket bridge script
- The bridge script connects Godot to the Flask WebSocket server

## Troubleshooting

### Video Not Showing
- Check that `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` is set correctly
- Verify video is public or unlisted (not private)
- Check browser console for errors

### Video Out of Sync
- Adjust `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` to match your video start time
- Offset formula: `flight_data_start_time - youtube_video_start_time`
- Use sync tools to automatically detect and fix sync issues

### WebSocket Not Connecting
- Check `WS_URL` environment variable is set correctly
- Verify it matches your actual service URL (with https://)
- Check browser console for connection errors
- Ensure backend server is running

### 3D View Not Updating
- Verify WebSocket bridge script is in `godot/Display.html`
- Check WebSocket connection in browser console
- Ensure Godot display is properly loaded

### Service Won't Start
- Check that `requirements.txt` is in `webdisplay/` directory
- Verify `start_server.py` is in `webdisplay/` directory
- Check build logs for dependency errors
- Ensure Python version matches `runtime.txt`

### Performance Issues
- Reduce update frequency in `js/main.js` (change `% 100` to `% 200`)
- Check network tab for slow asset loading
- Verify data file is not too large

## Notes

- **YouTube Video**: The system uses YouTube video for playback, eliminating the need for large frame storage
- **Video Sync**: YouTube video automatically syncs with flight data timestamps
- **Godot Display**: Requires WebSocket bridge script in `Display.html` (see `frontend/godot/Display.html`)
- **Data Preloading**: All flight data is preloaded for smooth playback
- **CORS**: Backend has CORS enabled for cross-origin requests

## License

Part of the Flight Test 1 - SR22 project demonstration.

Commit message:

Remove Supabase integration and add diagnostics
Supabase support and related files have been removed, reverting to CSV-only data loading. Added diagnostics utilities and endpoints to aid debugging of data loading and extraction. Updated documentation to reflect new deployment and environment variable requirements, and improved error handling and logging throughout the backend.

webdisplay/README.md, after:

# Flight Test Playback Web Display

A web-based interactive flight test data visualization system with 3D HMD display, video feed, flight path map, altitude profile, and attitude charts. This system synchronizes YouTube video playback with real-time flight data visualization.

## Features

- **3D HMD Display**: Real-time 3D visualization using Godot HTML5 export
- **YouTube Video Integration**: Synchronized video playback with flight data
- **Interactive Flight Path Map**: Real-time tracking on an interactive map
- **Altitude Profile Chart**: Visual altitude tracking over time
- **Attitude Charts**: Pitch, roll, and heading visualization
- **WebSocket Real-time Updates**: Live data streaming for smooth playback
- **Playback Controls**: Play, pause, speed control, and jump to timestamp

## Project Structure

```
webdisplay/
├── backend/              # Flask backend server
│   ├── app.py           # Main server application
│   ├── data_processor.py
│   └── video_timestamp_mapper.py
├── frontend/            # Web frontend
│   ├── index.html       # Main HTML page
│   ├── css/             # Stylesheets
│   ├── js/              # JavaScript modules
│   │   ├── playback.js  # Playback control logic
│   │   ├── main.js      # Main application logic
│   │   ├── map.js       # Map visualization
│   │   ├── chart.js     # Chart rendering
│   │   ├── attitude-chart.js
│   │   └── youtube-player.js
│   └── godot/           # Godot HTML5 export (3D display)
│       └── Display.html # Godot display with WebSocket bridge
├── Display/             # Godot project scripts
│   └── Scripts/
├── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
├── start_server.py      # Server startup script
├── start_server.bat     # Windows startup script
├── start_server.sh      # Linux/Mac startup script
├── config.py.example   # Configuration template
├── Procfile             # For deployment platforms
├── render.yaml          # Render.com deployment config
└── runtime.txt          # Python version specification
```

## Environment Variables

See `ENV_VARIABLES.md` for complete documentation.

**Required for production:**
- `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` - Your YouTube video ID
- `WS_URL` - Your production URL (e.g., https://your-app.onrender.com)

**Optional:**
- `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` - Time offset in seconds (default: 0.0)
- `PORT` - Server port (auto-set by Render)

## Quick Start

### 0. Verify Setup (Optional)

Run the verification script to check if all files are present:

```bash
python verify_setup.py
```

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure YouTube Video

The system uses YouTube video for playback. Set environment variables or create a `.env` file:

```bash
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env and set your YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID
```

Or set environment variables directly:

```env
YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID=your_video_id_here
YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=0.0
```

**Getting Your YouTube Video ID:**
- From URL: `https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VIDEO_ID_HERE`
- The Video ID is the part after `v=`
- Video must be **public** or **unlisted** (not private)

**YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET:**
- Offset in seconds to sync video with flight data
- If flight data starts at timestamp 2643.0s but video starts at 0:00, set `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=2643.0`
- If video starts 10 seconds before flight data, set `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET=-10.0`

### 3. Start the Server

```bash
python start_server.py
```

Or use the provided scripts:
- **Windows**: `start_server.bat`
- **Linux/Mac**: `start_server.sh`

### 4. Open in Browser

Navigate to `http://localhost:5000`

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` | YouTube video ID (required) | - |
| `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` | Video sync offset in seconds | `0.0` |
| `HOST` | Server host | `127.0.0.1` |
| `PORT` | Server port | `5000` |
| `DEBUG` | Debug mode | `True` |
| `WS_URL` | WebSocket URL (for production) | Auto-detected |

### Data Files

The system expects:
- `merged_data.csv` in the `webdisplay/` directory (flight data) ✅ **Already included**
- `youtube_timestamps.json` in the `webdisplay/` directory (optional, improves video sync) ✅ **Already included**
- `video_timestamps.json` in the `webdisplay/` directory (optional fallback) ✅ **Already included**
- `camera_frames_flipped/` directory in project root (optional, for frame-based video)

**Note:** This directory is now self-contained for hosting. All required files are included.

### WebSocket URL Configuration

For production deployment, update WebSocket URLs in:
- `frontend/js/playback.js` (line ~18)
- `frontend/godot/Display.html` (line ~118)

Change from:
```javascript
const socket = io('http://127.0.0.1:5000');
```

To your server URL:
```javascript
const socket = io('https://your-domain.com');
```

## Deployment

### Render.com (Recommended - Free Tier)

1. **Push code to GitHub**

2. **Create Render service:**
   - Go to [render.com](https://render.com)
   - Click "New +" → "Web Service"
   - Connect your GitHub repository

3. **Configure service:**
   - **Name**: `flight-test-display`
   - **Root Directory**: `webdisplay`
   - **Environment**: `Python 3`
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `python start_server.py`
   - **Environment Variables**:
     - `HOST`: `0.0.0.0`
     - `PORT`: `10000` (or check Render's assigned port)
     - `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID`: Your video ID
     - `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET`: `0.0` (adjust as needed)
     - `WS_URL`: Your Render URL (set after first deploy)

4. **After deployment:**
   - Copy your service URL
   - Add `WS_URL` environment variable with your URL
   - Update WebSocket URLs in frontend files if needed

**Free Tier Limitations:**
- Service sleeps after 15 minutes of inactivity
- First request after sleep takes ~30 seconds (wake-up)
- 500MB disk space, 100GB bandwidth/month

### Railway.app

1. Install Railway CLI: `npm i -g @railway/cli`
2. Login: `railway login`
3. Initialize: `railway init`
4. Deploy: `railway up`
5. Set environment variables in Railway dashboard

### Production Server (Gunicorn)

For production deployment on your own server:

```bash
pip install gunicorn gevent gevent-websocket
gunicorn -w 4 -k geventwebsocket.gunicorn.workers.GeventWebSocketWorker \
    --bind 0.0.0.0:5000 \
    --timeout 120 \
    backend.app:app
```

## Integration into Your Website

### Option 1: Standalone Page

1. Copy the entire `frontend/` folder to your website
2. Update WebSocket URLs to point to your backend server
3. Link to `frontend/index.html` from your website

### Option 2: Embed as Component

1. Copy `frontend/css/`, `frontend/js/`, and `frontend/godot/` to your website
2. Include the CSS and JS files in your page
3. Copy the HTML structure from `frontend/index.html` into your page
4. Update WebSocket URLs

### Required External Dependencies

The frontend requires these libraries (already included in `index.html`):
- Leaflet.js (for map)
- Chart.js (for charts)
- Socket.IO (for WebSocket)
- YouTube IFrame API (for video)

## Video Synchronization

The system automatically synchronizes YouTube video with flight data timestamps. The sync process involves:

1. **Base Mapping**: Match video frames to flight data timestamps
2. **YouTube Adjustment**: Account for any trimming/editing in the YouTube video

The synchronization is configured via the `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` environment variable. If you need to create or adjust timestamp mappings, you'll need to use external tools or scripts (not included in this web display package).

## Development

### Local Development

1. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Set environment variables (create `.env` file)
3. Run: `python start_server.py`
4. Open: `http://localhost:5000`

### Default Settings

- **Playback Speed**: 2x (configurable in `js/playback.js`)
- **Update Frequency**: Map/charts update every 100 frames (configurable in `js/main.js`)
- **Data Preloading**: All flight data is preloaded for smooth playback

### Godot Integration

The 3D display uses Godot HTML5 export. Important notes:
- The WebSocket bridge script must be in `frontend/godot/Display.html`
- After each Godot HTML5 export, you must re-add the WebSocket bridge script
- The bridge script connects Godot to the Flask WebSocket server

## Troubleshooting

### Video Not Showing
- Check that `YOUTUBE_VIDEO_ID` is set correctly
- Verify video is public or unlisted (not private)
- Check browser console for errors

### Video Out of Sync
- Adjust `YOUTUBE_START_OFFSET` to match your video start time
- Offset formula: `flight_data_start_time - youtube_video_start_time`
- Use sync tools to automatically detect and fix sync issues

### WebSocket Not Connecting
- Check `WS_URL` environment variable is set correctly
- Verify it matches your actual service URL (with https://)
- Check browser console for connection errors
- Ensure backend server is running

### 3D View Not Updating
- Verify WebSocket bridge script is in `godot/Display.html`
- Check WebSocket connection in browser console
- Ensure Godot display is properly loaded

### Service Won't Start
- Check that `requirements.txt` is in `webdisplay/` directory
- Verify `start_server.py` is in `webdisplay/` directory
- Check build logs for dependency errors
- Ensure Python version matches `runtime.txt`

### Performance Issues
- Reduce update frequency in `js/main.js` (change `% 100` to `% 200`)
- Check network tab for slow asset loading
- Verify data file is not too large

## Notes

- **YouTube Video**: The system uses YouTube video for playback, eliminating the need for large frame storage
- **Video Sync**: YouTube video automatically syncs with flight data timestamps
- **Godot Display**: Requires WebSocket bridge script in `Display.html` (see `frontend/godot/Display.html`)
- **Data Preloading**: All flight data is preloaded for smooth playback
- **CORS**: Backend has CORS enabled for cross-origin requests

## License

Part of the Flight Test 1 - SR22 project demonstration.
